 Building Scalable system isn't just about writing good code, it's about anticipating and solving problems before they become critical. Today, we explore eight system design challenges that every growing system faces, along with the solutions that top companies use to tackle them. Every successful application eventually faces the challenge of handling high read volumes. Imagine a popular news website where millions of readers view articles, but only a small team of editors publishes new content. The mismatch between reads and writes creates an interesting scaling problem. The solution is caching. By implementing a fast cash layer, the system first checks for data there before hitting the slower database. While this dramatically reduces database low, caching has its challenges. Keeping the cache in sync with the database and managing cash expiration. Strategies like TTL and Kees or write-through caching can help maintain consistency. cash make implementing this pattern easier. Cashing is especially effective for read-heavy, low-trin data like aesthetic pages or product listings. Some systems face the opposite challenge, handling massive amounts of incoming rights. Consider a logging system processing millions or event per second or a social media platform managing real-time user interactions. These systems need different optimization strategies. We tackle this with two approaches. rights with message cues and worker processes. Instead of processing rights immediately, the system cues them for background handling. This gives users instant feedback while the heavy processing happens in the background. Second, we use LSM-based databases like Cassandra. These databases collect rights in memory and periodically flush them to disks as sort of files. To maintain performance, they perform compaction, merging files to reduce a number of lookups required during This makes rice very fast, but reads become slower as they may need to check multiple files. Handling high-right loads is just one part of the puzzle. Even the fastest system becomes useless if it goes down. An e-commerce platform with a single database server stops entirely on failure. No searches, no purchases, no revenue. We solved this through redundancy and failover. over. Implementing database replication with primary and replicate instances. While this increases availability, it introduces complexity in consistency management. We might choose synchronous replication to prevent data loss and accept higher latency, or offer a synchronous replication that offers better performance but risks like data loss during failures. Some system even use quorum-based replication to balance consistency and availability. Critical Services like payment systems need true high availability. This requires both low balancing and replication working together. Low balances distribute traffic across server clusters and reroute around failures. For databases, a primary replica setup is standard. The primary handles right, while multiple replicas handles reads. And failover ensures a replica can take over if the primary fails. Multiple primary replication is another option for distributing right geographically, though it comes with more complex consistency tradeoffs. Performance becomes even more critical when serving users globally. Users in Australia shouldn't wait for content to low from servers in Europe. CEDN solved this by cashing content closer to users, dramatically reducing latency. Static content, live videos and images, works perfectly with CEDNs. For dynamic content, solutions like cache computing computing, can complement CD and cashing. Different types of content need different cache control headers, longer duration for media files, shorter for user profiles. Managing large amounts of data brings his own challenges. More than platforms use two types of storage, block storage and object storage. Block storage with its low NC and high Iops is ideal for databases and frequently accessed small files. Object storage, on the other hand, cause less and is designed to handle a large static like videos and backups at scale. Most platforms combine these, user data goes into block storage, while media files are stored in object storage. With all these systems running, we need to monitor their performance. Modern monitoring tools like Prometheus, collect logs and metrics, while Grafana provides visualization. This should be the tracing tools like open telemetry, help debug performance bottlenecks across components. across components. At scale, managing this flood of data is challenging. The key is to sample routine events, keep detailed logs for critical operations, and set up alerts that trigger only for real problems. One of the most common issue monitoring reviews is slow database queries. Indexing is the first line of defense. Without indexes, the database scans every record to find what it needs. With indexes, it can quickly jump to the right data. Composted indexes for multi-column queries can further optimize performance. But every index slows down right slightly since they need to be updated for data changes. Sometimes, indexing alone isn't enough. As a last resort, consider sharding, splitting the database across multiple machines, using strategies like range-based or hash-based distribution. While shouting can scale the system significantly, it has substantial complexity and can be challenging to reverse. test simplified charting for databases like my sequel, but it's a strategy to use sparingly, and only when absolutely necessary.